now Jacob dwelt in the land where his
father was a stranger in the land of
Canaan this is the history of Jacob
Joseph being 17 years old was feeding
the flock with his brothers and the lad
was with the sons of Bilhah and the sons
of Zilpah his father's wives and Joseph
brought a bad report of them to his
father now Israel loved Joseph more than
all his children because he was the son
of his old age also he made him a tunic
of many colors but when his brothers saw
that their father loved him more than
all his brothers they hated him and
could not speak peaceably to him now
Joseph had a dream and he told it to his
brothers and they hated him even more so
he said to them please hear this dream
which I have dreamed there we were
binding sheaves in the field then behold
my sheaf arose and also stood upright
and indeed your sheaves stood all around
and bowed down to my sheaf and his
brothers said to him shall you indeed
reign over us or shall you indeed have
dominion over us so they hated him even
more for his dreams and for his words
then he dreamed still another dream and
told it to his brothers look I have
dreamed another dream and this time the
Sun the moon and the Eleven stars bowed
down to me so he told it to his father
and his brothers and his father rebuked
him what is this dream that you have
dreamed shall your mother and I and your
brothers indeed come to bow down to the
earth before you and his brothers envied
him but his father kept the matter in
mind when his brothers went to feed
their father's flock in Shechem and
Israel said to Joseph are not your
brothers feeding the flock in Shechem
come I will send you to them so he said
to him
Here I am please go and see if it is
well with your brothers and well with
the flocks and bring back word to me so
he sent him out of the valley of Hebron
and he went to Shechem now a certain man
found him and there he was wandering in
the field what are you seeking I am
seeking my brothers please tell me where
they are feeding their flocks they have
departed from here for I heard them say
let us go to Dothan so Joseph went off
to his brothers and found them in Dothan
now when they saw him afar off even
before he came near them they conspired
against him to kill him
look this dreamer is coming come
therefore let us now kill him and cast
him into some pit and we shall say some
wild beast has devoured him we shall see
what will become of his dreams but Ruben
heard it and he delivered him out of
their hands
let us not kill him
shed no blood but cast him into this pit
which is in the wilderness and do not
lay a hand on him that he might deliver
him out of their hands and bring him
back to his father so he came to pass
when Joseph had come to his brothers but
they strapped Joseph of his tunic the
tunic of many colors that was on him and
cast him into a pit the pit was empty
there was no water in it and they sat
down to eat a meal then they lifted
their eyes and looked and there was a
company of Ishmaelites coming from
Gilead with their camels bearing spices
balm and myrrh on their way to carry
them down to Egypt so Judah said to his
brothers
what profit is there if we kill our
brother conceal his blood come and let
us sell him to the Ishmaelites and let
not our hand to be upon him for he is
our brother and our flesh and his
brothers listened then Midianite traders
passed by so the brothers pulled joseph
up and lifted him out of the pit and
sold him to the Ishmaelites for twenty
shekels of silver and they took Joseph
to Egypt then Reuben returned to the pit
and indeed Joseph was not in the pit and
he tore his clothes and he returned to
his brothers the lad is no more and I
where shall I go so they took Joseph's
tunic killed a kid of the goats and
dipped the tunic in the blood then they
sent the tunic of many colors and they
brought it to their father
we have found this do you know whether
it is your son's tunic or not and he
recognized it it is my son's tunic a
wild beast has devoured him without
doubt Joseph is torn to pieces and Jacob
but for his clothes puts a cloth on his
waist and mourn for his son many days
and all his sons and all his daughters
arose to comfort him but he refused to
be comforted for I shall go down into
the grave to my son in mourning Rus his
father wept for him
now the Midianites had sold him in Egypt
to Potiphar an officer of fair and
captain of the guard
you
[Music]